.TH ROTT 1 "January 2026" "ROTT 2.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rott \- local-first links and notes management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rott
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rott
is a local-first knowledge management system for saving and organizing links.
It uses Automerge CRDTs for conflict-free sync across multiple devices.
.PP
ROTT works fully offline, with optional sync to a self-hosted server.
Your identity is your root document ID \- no accounts or passwords needed.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B tui
Start the interactive terminal user interface.
.TP
.B init
Initialize ROTT for first-time setup. Creates a new identity or joins an existing one.
See \fBrott-init\fR(1).
.TP
.B device
Device identity management. Show root document ID.
.TP
.B link
Manage links (create, list, show, edit, delete, search).
See \fBrott-link\fR(1).
.TP
.B tags
List all tags used across your links.
.TP
.B config
Show or set configuration values.
.TP
.B status
Show current status including root document ID and sync state.
.TP
.B sync
Sync with remote server.
See \fBrott-sync\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to config file. Defaults to ~/.config/rott/config.toml.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON for scripting.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode \- minimal output.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose output. Use multiple times for more detail (-v info, -vv debug, -vvv trace).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information.
.SH GETTING STARTED
.SS First-Time Setup
.PP
Run \fBrott init\fR to create a new identity:
.RS
.nf
$ rott init
.fi
.RE
.PP
Save your root document ID somewhere safe! You'll need it to set up additional devices.
.SS Adding a Device
.PP
On a new device, join your existing identity:
.RS
.nf
$ rott init --join YOUR_ROOT_DOCUMENT_ID
.fi
.RE
.SS Setting Up Sync
.PP
Configure a sync server URL:
.RS
.nf
$ rott config set sync_url ws://192.168.1.100:3030
$ rott config set sync_enabled true
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create a new link:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link create https://example.com --tag rust --tag programming
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all links:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link list
.fi
.RE
.PP
List links with a specific tag:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link list --tag rust
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search links:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link search "rust programming"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start the TUI:
.RS
.nf
$ rott tui
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check status:
.RS
.nf
$ rott status
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/rott/config.toml
Configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/rott/
Data directory containing Automerge documents and SQLite database.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used for creating and editing notes.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rott-init (1),
.BR rott-link (1),
.BR rott-sync (1)
.PP
Full documentation: https://github.com/evcraddock/rott
.SH AUTHORS
Erik Craddock <erik@craddock.com>
