.TH ROTT-INIT 1 "January 2026" "ROTT 2.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rott-init \- initialize ROTT for first-time setup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rott init
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrott init\fR command initializes ROTT on a device. This is required
before using any other ROTT commands.
.PP
There are two modes:
.IP \(bu 2
\fBNew identity\fR: Creates a new root document with a unique ID
.IP \(bu 2
\fBJoin existing\fR: Uses an existing root document ID to sync with other devices
.PP
When run without options, \fBrott init\fR shows an interactive prompt asking
which mode to use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-new
Create a new identity without prompting. Use this for your first device
or to start fresh.
.TP
.BR \-\-join " " \fIROOT_DOCUMENT_ID\fR
Join an existing identity by providing the root document ID from another
device. Use this to sync with an existing ROTT setup.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to config file.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose output.
.SH ROOT DOCUMENT ID
Your root document ID is your identity in ROTT. It looks like:
.RS
.nf
2DrjgbFkSxXwGBKnVGbLjtPnqTo3r
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fBIMPORTANT:\fR Save this ID somewhere safe after running \fBrott init\fR.
You need it to set up additional devices. If you lose it and don't have
it on any device, you cannot recover your data.
.PP
To view your root document ID at any time:
.RS
.nf
$ rott status
.fi
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS First Device (Interactive)
.RS
.nf
$ rott init
? How would you like to set up ROTT?
> Create new identity
  Join existing identity

Creating new identity...
Your root document ID: 2DrjgbFkSxXwGBKnVGbLjtPnqTo3r

IMPORTANT: Save this ID! You need it to set up other devices.
.fi
.RE
.SS First Device (Non-Interactive)
.RS
.nf
$ rott init --new
Created new identity: 2DrjgbFkSxXwGBKnVGbLjtPnqTo3r
.fi
.RE
.SS Additional Device
.RS
.nf
$ rott init --join 2DrjgbFkSxXwGBKnVGbLjtPnqTo3r
Joined existing identity.
Run 'rott sync' to pull your data from the sync server.
.fi
.RE
.SH POST-INIT SETUP
After initialization, configure sync to enable multi-device access:
.RS
.nf
$ rott config set sync_url ws://YOUR_SERVER:3030
$ rott config set sync_enabled true
$ rott sync
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/rott/config.toml
Stores the root document ID and sync configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/rott/
Data directory created during initialization.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (e.g., already initialized, invalid root document ID).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rott (1),
.BR rott-sync (1)
.PP
See \fIhttps://github.com/evcraddock/rott/blob/main/docs/IDENTITY.md\fR
for detailed information about root document IDs.
