.TH ROTT-LINK 1 "January 2026" "ROTT 2.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rott-link \- manage links in ROTT
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rott link
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrott link\fR command manages links in your ROTT collection.
Links can have titles, descriptions, authors, tags, and attached notes.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS rott link create
Create a new link.
.PP
.B rott link create
\fIURL\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-title " " \fITITLE\fR
Set the link title. If not provided, ROTT attempts to fetch it from the URL.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description " " \fIDESCRIPTION\fR
Set a description for the link.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-author " " \fIAUTHOR\fR
Set the author(s). Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-\-tag " " \fITAG\fR
Add a tag. Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-fetch
Don't fetch metadata from the URL.
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link create https://example.com --tag rust --tag tutorial
.fi
.RE
.SS rott link list
List all links, optionally filtered by tag.
.PP
.B rott link list
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-tag " " \fITAG\fR
Filter by tag. Can be specified multiple times (OR logic).
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link list --tag rust
.fi
.RE
.SS rott link show
Show details of a specific link, including attached notes.
.PP
.B rott link show
\fIID\fR
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link show abc123
.fi
.RE
.SS rott link edit
Edit an existing link.
.PP
.B rott link edit
\fIID\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-title " " \fITITLE\fR
Set a new title.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description " " \fIDESCRIPTION\fR
Set a new description.
.TP
.BR \-\-tag " " \fITAG\fR
Replace all tags with the specified tags.
.TP
.BR \-\-add\-tag " " \fITAG\fR
Add a tag without removing existing ones.
.TP
.BR \-\-remove\-tag " " \fITAG\fR
Remove a specific tag.
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link edit abc123 --add-tag favorite
.fi
.RE
.SS rott link delete
Delete a link.
.PP
.B rott link delete
\fIID\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompt.
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link delete abc123
.fi
.RE
.SS rott link search
Search links by text.
.PP
.B rott link search
\fIQUERY\fR
.PP
Searches titles, descriptions, and URLs.
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link search "rust async"
.fi
.RE
.SS rott link note
Manage notes attached to a link. Notes are annotations or comments on links.
.PP
.B rott link note create
\fILINK_ID\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.RS
Create a new note on a link. Opens $EDITOR if no body provided.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-title " " \fITITLE\fR
Set note title.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-body " " \fIBODY\fR
Set note body directly.
.RE
.PP
.B rott link note list
\fILINK_ID\fR
.RS
List all notes on a link.
.RE
.PP
.B rott link note delete
\fILINK_ID\fR \fINOTE_ID\fR
.RS
Delete a note from a link.
.RE
.PP
.B Example:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link note create abc123 --body "Great article on async Rust"
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
Global options that apply to all subcommands:
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to config file.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose output.
.SH LINK IDENTIFIERS
Links are identified by a short ID (UUID prefix). You can use:
.IP \(bu 2
Full UUID: \fI550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Short prefix: \fI550e84\fR (minimum 6 characters)
.PP
The short prefix must be unique among your links.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create a link and add a note:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link create https://doc.rust-lang.org --tag rust --tag docs
Created link: abc123

$ rott link note create abc123 --body "Official Rust docs"
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all rust-tagged links as JSON:
.RS
.nf
$ rott link list --tag rust --json
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rott (1),
.BR rott-init (1),
.BR rott-sync (1)
